Sample multiple choice questions - Driver Qualification Test (DQT) part 1

The actual knowledge test questions (Part 1) are confidential and therefore not publicly available.

Below are a few sample questions, typical of those you will be asked in the DQT part 1. These are NOT the actual test questions, however they will give you an idea about the types of questions you will be asked. You can test your knowledge by answering these questions, however being able to answer all of them does not necessarily mean you will pass the DQT part 1. To successfully prepare for this test you need to study all the sections of the Driver Qualification Handbook.

Question 1

A driver is driving on a country road at 80km/h. The speed limit is 80km/h, there is light fog and it is raining. The driver goes round a curve and suddenly sees a cyclist in the middle of his lane. He brakes hard, but ends up colliding with the cyclist. What is the primary cause of this crash?

a) The cyclist should not have been riding in the middle of the lane

b) The driver did not adjust his/her speed to the wet and foggy conditions

c) The car’s brakes were worn out

d) Nobody is at fault, the accident happened because of an unfortunate combination of things

Question 2

A simple thing you can do to reduce your crash risk is to:

a) Look further ahead

b) Reduce your space cushion in heavy traffic

c) Avoid driving on freeways

d) Eat healthier food

Question 3

As part of a good scanning routine, drivers should check their mirrors:

a) About every 60 seconds

b) About every 10 to 20 seconds

c) About every 20 to 30 seconds

d) About every 5 to 10 seconds

Question 4

About what percentage of road crashes are caused by factors that include at least some human error?

a) 45%

b) 75%

c) 90%

d) 30%

Question 5

Driving is:

a) Quite safe, if you have good car control skills

b) Safe when you get a full licence

c) Safer than travelling by train

d) One of the riskiest things most people do

Question 6

The two main crash related distractions from inside the vehicle are:

a) Smoking and mobile telephones

b) Other passengers and adjusting the radio, stereo or CD

c) Loose items and eating

d) Adjusting the heater and air conditioning

Question 7

Overconfidence in your driving ability is increased whenever:

a) You drive unsafely but don’t crash

b) The police catch you for speeding

c) You manage to repair your car yourself

d) Other drivers give way to you

Question 8

You are driving the car in the picture in a 100km/zone. What action would you take?

a) Accelerate

b) Brake hard

c) Slow down gently

d) Maintain speed




Question 9

Which of the following statements about safe following distances is true?

a) The 3-second rule applies only in good conditions

b) Traveling closer than 3-seconds applies only if you have good reflexes

c) Only Provisional drivers should use the 3-second rule

d) The 3-second rule should be used at all times

Question 10

 When you become a full licence holder, the safest blood alcohol level will be:

a) 0.00

b) 0.04

c) 0.05

d) 0.50

Question 11

Which of the following statements is true?

a) Fatigue related crashes are about 3 times less likely in rural areas than in metropolitan areas

b) Fatigue related crashes occur most often between 8 am and 11 am

c) Fatigue related crashes are about 3 times more likely in rural areas than in metropolitan areas

d) The risk of a fatigue related crash is highest in the Sydney area

 

 


	
Correct Answers:

1b, 2a, 3d, 4c, 5d, 6b, 7a, 8c, 9a, 10a, 11c

http://www.rta.nsw.gov.au/licensing/tests/driverqualificationtest/knowledgetestpart1/samplequestions.html
