

GLOBAL FORMATIVE ASSESSMENTPage 1


GLOBAL FORMATIVE ASSESSMENT

USMLE Step 1 Type Sample QuestionsNote:
The
75 Questions
comprising the assessment material in this documentindicates the broad scope of theUSMLE Step 1Test content. These questionsprovide 4 answer choices for each question.
Select the One Best Answer.


1. A doctor is working in an outpatient orthopedic clinic. During the patient’shistory the patient reports, “I tore 3 of my 4 Rotator cuff muscles in thepast.” Which of the following mu
scles cannot be considered as possibly beingtorn? A: Teres minorB: Teres majorC: SupraspinatusD: Infraspinatus  2. A doctor at outpatient clinic is determining the appropriate sequence toarrange patients in the afternoon. Which of the following calls should havethe highest priority for medical intervention?
A: A home health patient reports, “I am starting to hav
e breakdown of my
heels.”

B: A patient that received an upper extremity cast yesterday reports, “I

can’t feel my fingers in my right hand today.”

C: A young female reports, ”I think I sprained my ankle about 2 weeks ago.”
 D: A middle-aged patient repor
ts, ”My knee is still hurting from the TKR.”
   3. A doctor working a surgical unit, notices a patient is experiencing SOB,calf pain, and warmth over the posterior calf. All of these may indicate whichof the following medical conditions? A: Patient may have a DVT.B: Patient may be exhibiting signs of dermatitis.C: Patient may be in the late phases of CHF.D: Patient may be experiencing anxiety after surgery




GLOBAL FORMATIVE ASSESSMENTPage 2

 4. A doctor is performing a screening on a patient that has been castedrecently on the left lower extremity. Which of the following statementsshould the doctor be most concerned about?
A: The patient reports, “I didn’t keep my extremity elevated like t
he doctorasked
me to.”

B: The patient reports, “I have been having pain in my left calf.”

C: The patient reports, “My left leg has really been itching.”

D: The patient reports, “The arthritis in my wrists is flaring up, when I put
weight  on my crutch
es.”
   5. The bacteria Neisseria gonorrhoeae can be classified as a: A: Gram-negative cocciB: SpirochetesC: Acid-fast bacilliD: Gram-positive cocci  6. The bacteria Staphylococcus aureus can be classified as a: A: Gram-negative cocciB: SpirochetesC: Acid-fast bacilliD: Gram-positive cocci 7. A doctor has just started on the 7PM surgical shift rotation. Which of thefollowing patients should the doctor check on first? A: A 75 year-old female who is scheduled for an EGD in 10 hours.B: A 34 year-old male who is complaining of low back pain following backsurgery and has an onset of urinary incontinence in the last hour.C: A 21 year-old male who had a lower extremity BKA yesterday, following aMVA and has phantom pain.D: A 27 year-
old female who has received 1.5 units of RBC’s. via transfusion
the previous day.


GLOBAL FORMATIVE ASSESSMENTPage 3

 8. A 22 year-old patient in a mental health lock-down unit under suicidewatch appears happy about being discharged. Which of the following isprobably happening? A: The patient is excited about being around family again.
B: The patient’s suicide plan has probably progressed.

C: The patient’s plans for the future have been clarified.

D: The patient’s mood is improving.
  9. Which of the following microorganisms has not been linked to Meningitis? A: Flavobacterium meningosepticumB: Listeria monocytogenesC: Pasteurella multocidaD: Streptobacillus moniliformis 10. A 13 year old girl is admitted to the ER with lower right abdominaldiscomfort. The admitting physician should take which the followingmeasures first? A: Administer Loritab to the patient for pain relief.B: Place the patient in right sidelying position for pressure relief.C: Start a Central Line.D: Provide pain reduction techniques without administering medication. 11. A patient that has TB can be taken off restrictions after which of thefollowing parameters have been met? A: Negative culture results.B: After 30 days of isolation.C: Normal body temperature for 48 hours.D: Non-productive cough for 72 hours. 12. A doctor teaching a patient with COPD pulmonary exercises should dowhich of the following? A: Teach purse-lip breathing techniques.B: Encourage repetitive heavy lifting exercises that will increase streng

