Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-1
S E C T I O N 3
SAMPLE TEST ITEMS FOR ELEMENTARY AND SPECIAL
EDUCATION TEACHERS
This section of the Virginia Reading Assessment (VRA) Study Guide provides sample
multiple-choice and constructed-response test items to assist you in preparing to take
the VRA for Elementary and Special Education Teachers.
Multiple-Choice Items
This section contains the multiple-choice sample items and associated information as
follows:
• a description of multiple-choice item formats;
• test directions for multiple-choice items;
• sample multiple-choice items; and
• an answer key for multiple-choice items with explanations for the correct
responses.
Multiple-Choice Item Formats
VRA test items are designed to assess subject matter knowledge described in the test
blueprint for each test field. In addition to demonstrating your ability to recall factual
information, you will be asked to think critically about information, analyze it, apply
it, consider it carefully, compare it with other knowledge you have, or make a
judgment about it. The purpose of this section is to describe the most common
multiple-choice item formats you may see on the VRA. This section also suggests
possible ways to approach thinking about and answering them.
Multiple-Choice Item Format One: Single Test Items
In the single test-item format, a problem is presented as a direct question or an
incomplete statement, and four response options (A, B, C, and D) appear below the
question. Refer to sample item 2 as an example of this type of test item.
For test items in this format, a suggested approach is to read the entire item carefully
and critically. Think about what it is asking and the situation it is describing. It is best
to read and evaluate all four response options to find the best answer; you should not
stop at the first answer that seems reasonable. After reading all four response options,
eliminate any obviously wrong answers and select the best choice from the remaining
answers. There is no penalty for incorrect multiple-choice item answers; therefore, it is
better to select an answer than not to respond at all.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-2 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Multiple-Choice Item Format Two: Test Items with Stimulus Material
Some test items are preceded by stimulus material to which the test items relate. Some
examples of stimulus material that may be included on a test are maps, charts, tables,
graphs, reading passages, and descriptions of classroom situations. In some cases,
there is only one test item related to the stimulus provided. In other cases, two or
more test items are related to a single stimulus. Each stimulus is preceded by a
direction line indicating how many items are related to that stimulus. Refer to sample
item 8 as an example of a test item with stimulus material.
The following approach is suggested when responding to test items with stimulus
material. First, examine the stimulus. Note how the information is presented. For
sample items 8 and 9, the stimulus is a word map for exploring the different meanings
of a word. Now read sample item 8 associated with this stimulus. As you consider
each response option, look back at the stimulus to determine how it is most likely to
promote students' reading development. It is best to read and evaluate all four
response options to find the best answer; you should not stop at the first answer that
seems reasonable. After reading all four response options, eliminate any obviously
wrong answers and select the best choice from the remaining answers. There is no
penalty for incorrect multiple-choice item answers; therefore, it is better to select an
answer than not to respond at all.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-3
Test Directions for Multiple-Choice Items
DIRECTIONS FOR SECTION I: MULTIPLE-CHOICE ITEMS
Questions 1 to 90
Each question in this section is a multiple-choice item with four answer choices. Read each question
carefully and choose the ONE best answer. Record each answer on page one or two of Answer Document A
in the space that corresponds to the question number. Completely fill in the circle having the same letter as
the answer you have chosen. Use only a No. 2 lead pencil.
Sample Question: 1. What is the capital of Virginia?
A. Roanoke
B. Norfolk
C. Richmond
D. Charlottesville
The correct answer to this question is C. You would indicate that on Answer Document A as follows:
1.
Try to answer all questions. In general, if you have some knowledge about a question, it is better to try to
answer it. There is no penalty for incorrect multiple-choice item answers; therefore, it is better to select an
answer than not to respond at all.
STOP
DO NOT GO ON UNTIL YOU ARE TOLD TO DO SO.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-4 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Sample Multiple-Choice Items
1. Use the information below to answer the question that follows.
A second-grade teacher assesses a student's oral reading performance by having the student read aloud
from an appropriate story while the teacher makes notes on a copy of the story. Printed below is an
excerpt from the teacher's record of the student's oral reading.
som
Kate looked up and saw dark clouds. One drop of rain fell on her nose. Then more and more
drops of rain fell. Kate's dog Sam did not like storms. "Where are you, Sam?" called Kate.
There was a boom of thunder. Kate wanted to go home, but she had to find Sam. Where was
he hiding? "Sam, come here!" called Kate. But Sam did not come. Kate was about to leave
when she saw a furry brown tail under some bushes. "Oh, Sam!" cried Kate. "I'm so glad
to see you!"
three
kom
own
were
Key:
deletion short pause repetition self-correction
insertion long pause substitutioncat
cow
The results of this informal assessment
most clearly suggest that the student
would benefit from instruction to:
A. help the student learn how to use
context clues while reading.
B. improve the student's automatic
recognition of some sight words.
C. prompt the student to self-monitor
comprehension while reading.
D. strengthen the student's phonemic
awareness and phonics skills.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-5
2. A third-grade teacher plans to have stu-
dents work in temporary, heterogeneous
groups for reading projects. As the
students collaborate on an assigned
reading-related project, every member of
the group will have a role to play. Clear
behavioral and instructional guidelines
and goals will be communicated to each
group before the students begin working.
Which of the following additional steps
would best promote the effectiveness of
this approach to flexible grouping?
A. Identify activities for individual
students to engage in independently
if they finish assigned reading
before other members of the group.
B. Assign leadership responsibilities to
the students in each group who are
the most proficient readers.
C. Plan alternative activities for
students with reading difficulties
rather than requiring them to
participate in the group projects.
D. Assess students' reading skills
before, during, and after partici-
pation in the group project.
3. Students in a fourth-grade class play a
game in which two students sit in chairs
facing each other. One student can see
a bulletin board on which the teacher
displays a picture of an object. The
student must describe the object without
identifying it. Based on this description,
the partner tries to guess what the object
is. Then the partners switch places; the
teacher displays another picture, and the
process is repeated. This activity is most
likely to promote students' literacy
development by helping students:
A. distinguish main ideas from sup-
porting details when listening or
speaking.
B. expand their listening and speaking
vocabularies.
C. understand the importance of
precise word choice in clear oral
communication.
D. gain skill in the use of expressive
oral language.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-6 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
4. A first-grade student demonstrates some
phonological awareness but has difficulty
segmenting words into phonemes. Which
of the following questions is likely to be
most difficult for the student to answer?
A. Which two words begin with the
same sound: man, sat, sick?
B. Listen to the word parts, then say
the whole word: ta . . . ble—What's
the word?
C. Which word does not rhyme: cat,
sat, pig?
D. Listen to this word: sat. How many
sounds do you hear?
5. At the beginning of the school year, a
kindergarten teacher observes a child
"pretend reading" a book in the inde-
pendent reading area of the classroom.
The child turns the pages in sequence,
looking at the illustrations and quietly
telling a story but not referring to the
printed text. The teacher could best
interpret this behavior as an indication
that the child:
A. has developed an understanding of
some concepts of print.
B. lacks letter-recognition skills.
C. has well-developed oral compre-
hension.
D. lacks phonemic awareness.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-7
6. Decodable texts are useful to include in
materials for early reading programs
primarily because such texts:
A. promote automatic recognition of
many high-frequency sight words.
B. give children practice applying
phonic associations that already
have been taught.
C. address high-interest topics that
motivate children to read.
D. introduce children to phonics
generalizations that they can use
to decode unfamiliar words.
7. A kindergarten student enjoys listening
and responding to stories the teacher reads
aloud. The student participates enthusias-
tically in prereading conversations, enjoys
making predictions, and makes personal
connections with literary characters.
However, the student often exhibits
confusion about what actually happened
in the story. Which of the following
instructional strategies is likely to be most
effective in strengthening the student's
comprehension of stories that are read
aloud?
A. asking the student direct compre-
hension questions immediately after
reading a story
B. encouraging the student to listen
to stories on tape that the teacher
already has read aloud
C. having the student draw pictures of
characters from the stories and share
the pictures with the class
D. helping the student use a story map
or flannel board to retell stories that
the teacher has read aloud
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-8 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Use the information below to answer the two questions that follow.
Students in a sixth-grade class are working in small groups to create word maps. The teacher assigns
each group a word, and students begin drafting a word map by brainstorming different meanings of the
word. Members of the group then use a dictionary to verify their ideas and add more meanings to the
map. Each group presents its map to the class for further discussion. The groups then reconvene to com-
pose a sentence to illustrate each meaning in the word map. The groups take turns reading aloud their
sentences and discussing them with the class. Shown below is one group's completed word map.
root
root of problem
root beer plant root
root: to cheer
word root
tooth root
square root
root cellar
root: to dig
8. This approach to creating word maps is
most likely to promote students' reading
development in which of the following
ways?
A. prompting students to make
effective use of varied reference
materials to improve their under-
standing of texts
B. enhancing students' skill in iden-
tifying key words as a strategy to
improve reading comprehension
C. helping students identify and inter-
pret words with multiple meanings
that the students encounter in their
reading
D. improving students' reading fluency
by reinforcing their automatic word
recognition
9. When students read aloud and discuss
the sentences they composed, the teacher
guides the class to identify the selected
word's part of speech in each sentence
(e.g., whether root is being used as a noun,
a verb, or an adjective). This part of
the discussion is most likely to promote
students' vocabulary knowledge and
skills by:
A. helping students distinguish the
connotative meanings of words.
B. enhancing students' understanding
of the semantic and syntactic
functions of words.
C. motivating students to recognize and
avoid errors in grammar or usage.
D. reinforcing students' skill in
applying structural analysis as a
word-identification strategy.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-9
Use the information below to answer the two questions that follow.
Students in a fourth-grade class participate regularly in Readers Theatre performances. The teacher
begins by selecting a story at an appropriate level of difficulty and converting it to a script. The teacher
models an expressive reading of the story on which the script is based. After discussing the story with
students, the teacher offers a minilesson on how to make a story "come alive" through expressive reading
of a Readers Theatre script.
The teacher then distributes a copy of the script to each student in the group. The students practice
reading aloud the script independently or with a partner. Then they rehearse the script as a group, reading
their assigned roles and responding to coaching from the teacher. In subsequent rehearsals, the students
switch roles, until every student has had a chance to perform each role at least once. Over the course of
the week, the students rehearse the performance by reading the script aloud at least 12 times. The day
before the performance, students rehearse their final roles. The performance, which requires no costumes
or props, is presented to an audience of classmates, family members, school staff, or other groups of
students.
10. Which of the following statements best
describes the most important benefit of
this approach to Readers Theatre?
A. Readers Theatre enhances students'
reading comprehension and fluency
by motivating students to identify
and analyze varied text structures.
B. Readers Theatre motivates students
to read independently by exposing
them to varied genres and encour-
aging them to broaden their selec-
tion criteria.
C. Readers Theatre improves students'
reading fluency by providing an
authentic, motivating context for
repeated oral readings.
D. Readers Theatre provides a
motivating context for students to
practice applying a variety of word-
analysis strategies while reading.
11. The teacher wants to promote students'
skill in writing for entertainment and
creative expression. Which of the
following writing activities related
to Readers Theatre would be most
appropriate for this purpose?
A. providing students with oppor-
tunities to write in their journals
about what they learned by partici-
pating in the Readers Theatre
performances
B. helping students work in small
groups to write their own story or
rewrite a favorite story as a script to
perform for Readers Theatre
C. giving students samples of reviews
by theatre critics to use as models
for writing their own critical
reviews of the Readers Theatre
performances
D. having students work in small
groups to prepare written programs
for audience members who attend
Readers Theatre performances
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-10 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Use the information below to answer the two questions that follow.
Students in a fourth-grade class are using reading materials in the classroom library to conduct research
on animals. Each student selects an animal to research and takes notes on a graphic organizer prepared
by the teacher. Before reading, students write in the first column of the graphic organizer questions they
have about the selected animal. Students then conduct their research by reading at least two sources that
provide information about the animal. As they read, students take notes in the second column of the
graphic organizer, recording information to answer each question in the first column. Shown below is
an excerpt from one student's partially completed graphic organizer.
Name: Karen
Research Topic: Anteaters
My Questions Answers I Found By Reading
What do anteaters
look like?
Where do
anteaters live?
How do the
anteaters catch the
ants to eat them?
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-11
12. Using the graphic organizer is likely to
promote the students' comprehension of
nonfiction texts primarily by helping the
students:
A. set a purpose for reading.
B. distinguish main ideas from
supporting details.
C. recognize logical patterns.
D. link prior knowledge to new
information.
13. Which of the following additional
activities using the graphic organizer
would best promote students' ability to
synthesize and communicate research
findings?
A. Students copy the information
recorded in the graphic organizer
into a formal outline of their
research findings.
B. Students transfer the information in
the graphic organizer to a semantic
map to illustrate their research
findings.
C. Students give an oral presentation
to share their research by reading
aloud the notes they have recorded
in the graphic organizer.
D. Students prepare a research report
by converting the information in
each row of the graphic organizer
to a written paragraph.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-12 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
14. Use the child's writing sample below to answer the question that follows.
I NO MI CAT R
HP T C ME
("I know my cats are happy to see me.")
This writing sample best supports which of the following conclusions about the child's literacy
development?
A. The child is a prephonetic speller who has not yet developed a basic understanding of the alphabetic
principle.
B. The child has weak phonemic awareness skills and most likely relies on recall of sight words when
reading and writing.
C. The child has strong beginning phonics skills but lacks understanding of word boundaries and other
concepts of print.
D. The child demonstrates knowledge of basic phonetic principles but sometimes substitutes letter
names for letter sounds when spelling.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-13
Answer Key
Item 1, Objective 1, Correct Response B
The teacher's record of the student's oral reading indicates miscues for the words one,
where, there, come, and some. These are all high-frequency words with irregular
spellings that cannot be decoded by applying knowledge of phonics generalizations
(e.g., come does not have the long vowel sound usually associated with CVCe words).
Beginning readers therefore must learn to recognize these words automatically as
"sight words." Even though the student self-corrects, the initial misreading of the
words suggests that the student would benefit from instruction to promote automatic
recognition of these frequently occurring sight words.
Item 2, Objective 2, Correct Response A
Flexible heterogeneous grouping allows students with varying levels of reading
proficiency to collaborate in small groups on reading projects that benefit all students.
Because some students are likely to read more quickly than others, it is useful to
include in the project independent activities that will reduce distractions by keeping
the more proficient readers actively engaged until the remaining group members
complete the assigned reading and are ready for collaborative activities.
Item 3, Objective 3, Correct Response C
The activity described promotes students' literacy development by improving their oral
communication skills. Presented as a game, the activity motivates students to choose
their words carefully in order to help their partners interpret oral messages and
visualize hidden objects. Alternately serving as speaker and listener, students use
critical listening skills to improve their own word choice and to provide constructive
feedback for their partners.
Item 4, Objective 4, Correct Response D
First-grade students who demonstrate some basic phonological awareness
may have difficulty with more advanced phonemic awareness tasks. In this case, the
student has difficulty segmenting spoken words into phonemes. In order to count the
sounds in a spoken word such as sat, the student must be able to distinguish each
phoneme by segmenting the word (/s/ /a/ /t/). For this reason, the student is likely
to have difficulty performing the task described in response D.
Item 5, Objective 5, Correct Response A
The child's "pretend reading" behaviors suggest that the child has developed an
understanding of some concepts of print. The child demonstrates book handling skills
(e.g., holds a book correctly, turns pages from front to back) and shows some
awareness of the relationship between spoken and printed language (e.g., tells a story
while turning the pages of a book).
Item 6, Objective 6, Correct Response B
Beginning readers learn to associate letters with their most common sounds, then
develop phonics skills by blending the sounds of letters to read simple printed words in
isolation and in connected text. Decodable texts are composed primarily of words
with regular spellings that students are capable of reading, based on their current
phonics knowledge. In this way, decodable texts reinforce students' phonics skills and
build their confidence as readers.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-14 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Item 7, Objective 9, Correct Response D
The student's reading-related behaviors reflect some strengths in literary response (e.g.,
drawing on personal experience to interpret literary characters), but the student's
confusion about the plot of stories that the teacher has read aloud suggests that the
student needs help understanding and recalling the sequence of events. The teacher
can support the student's reading development in this area by using concrete visual
aids, such as story maps or flannel boards, to help clarify the student's understanding
of a story's plot.
Item 8, Objective 7, Correct Response C
In English, a single word may have multiple meanings; the context in which the word
is used provides clues to its intended meaning. Readers who encounter such a word
while reading must recall that it has more than one meaning and discern the
appropriate meaning in context. In addition to enriching vocabulary knowledge, the
word map activity helps familiarize students with common words, such as root, that
have multiple meanings and develops students' skill in using context to verify the
intended meaning.
Item 9, Objective 7, Correct Response B
When students discuss the meaning of root in a given sentence, they are learning about
the word's semantic function. When they discuss the grammatical function of root
(e.g., noun, verb, adjective) in a given sentence, they are learning about the word's
syntactic function. Such discussions enrich vocabulary knowledge and skills by
reinforcing students' understanding of the word's varied meanings and by helping
students rapidly identify the word's meaning in context (e.g., recognizing that root is a
verb rather than a noun in the sentence, "Root for the home team.").
Item 10, Objective 8, Correct Response C
During the course of the Readers Theatre activity, students read the script aloud in an
expressive manner at least a dozen times. These repeated readings are likely to
improve the reading fluency of participating students by increasing their reading rate,
promoting automatic word recognition, and developing appropriate phrasing. Unlike
other types of repeated reading, which can become tedious, Readers Theatre motivates
students by setting a fun and authentic purpose for the oral reading (i.e., to prepare a
performance for friends/family).
Item 11, Objective 11, Correct Response B
Student writing plays an important role in promoting literacy development. Having
students work in small groups to compose or adapt a story for Readers Theatre
actively engages the students in writing for entertainment and creative expression.
The activity sensitizes students to connections between reading and writing, and
working with peers helps develop students' writing and reading skills.
Item 12, Objective 10, Correct Response A
Setting a purpose for reading can improve comprehension of nonfiction texts by
activating prior knowledge related to the text, alerting the reader to key words/ideas in
the text, and prompting the reader to self-monitor understanding. The graphic
organizer guides students to set a purpose for reading by providing a question-and-
answer structure for the assignment. Students are prompted to formulate their own
questions, which activates their prior knowledge and motivates them to read
thoughtfully and purposefully.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-15
Item 13, Objective 13, Correct Response D
Students use the second column of the graphic organizer to record their notes on two
or more sources. By converting the information in each row to a written paragraph,
students synthesize and communicate what they have learned through their research.
The guiding question in the first column provides a primary focus for each paragraph,
encouraging students to develop a clear topic sentence.
Item 14, Objective 12, Correct Response D
The child's writing sample demonstrates knowledge of the sounds that correspond to
some letters (e.g., the initial letters in my, cats, happy, me). However, the child
substitutes the name of the letter "r" for the word are and the name of the letter "c" for
the word see. These spelling patterns are consistent with the early phonetic stage of
spelling development.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-16 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Constructed-Response Items
This section contains the constructed-response sample item and associated information
as follows:
• a description of the constructed-response item format;
• test directions for constructed-response items;
• a sample constructed-response item;
• the performance characteristics and scoring scale for the constructed-response
item; and
• a strong response to the sample constructed-response item.
Constructed-Response Item Format
The VRA for Elementary Education and Special Education Teachers includes four
constructed-response items that correspond to the four content domains of the test
blueprint for the VRA for Elementary and Special Education teachers. You should
answer all constructed-response items. Each constructed-response item is designed to
test the candidate's knowledge of content defined in one of these four domains. Each
constructed-response item is expected to have a typical written response time of
approximately 15 minutes. Refer to the test blueprint at www.va.nesinc.com.
Each constructed-response item will typically include:
1. contextual or background information that presents the topic of the constructed-
response item; and
2. one or more specific directions or assignments that advise you of the elements that
you are expected to provide in your response.
All responses to constructed-response items are scored holistically using a scoring scale
that describes varying levels of performance. This scale is used by scorers in judging
the overall effectiveness of each response. Committees of Virginia educators reviewed
both the performance characteristics and the scoring scale before they were approved
by the Virginia Department of Education.
The Performance Characteristics guide scorers in considering responses to the
constructed-response items. Review the performance characteristics contained in this
section as you prepare to take the VRA.
The Scoring Scale is related to the performance characteristics for the test and is used
by scorers in assigning scores to responses to the constructed-response items.
As a whole, the response to each assignment must demonstrate an understanding of
the content of the field. Responses are scored on the extent to which they achieve the
purpose of the assignment, are appropriate and accurate in the application of subject
matter knowledge, provide high-quality and relevant supporting evidence, and
demonstrate a soundness of argument and an understanding of the subject area.
A response to a constructed-response item is designated "unscorable" if it is unrelated
to the assigned topic, illegible, not in the appropriate language, of insufficient length to
score, or merely a repetition of the assignment. If there is no response to a
constructed-response item, it is designated "blank."
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-17
Test Directions for Constructed-Response Items
DIRECTIONS FOR SECTION II: CONSTRUCTED-RESPONSE ITEMS
Assignments 1 to 4
This section of the test consists of four constructed-response assignments. For each of these assignments, you
are to prepare a written response and record it in the area provided in Answer Document A.
Read each assignment carefully before you begin to write. Think about how you will organize what you plan
to write. You may use any blank space provided in this test booklet following each assignment to make
notes, write an outline, or otherwise prepare your response. Your final responses, however, must be written
on the appropriate page of Answer Document A.
Written responses will be evaluated based on the extent to which they demonstrate knowledge and skills
important for effective delivery of a balanced, comprehensive reading program. Read each assignment
carefully to ensure that you address all aspects of the assignment. Your responses to the assignments will
be evaluated based on the following criteria:
Purpose: The candidate demonstrates an understanding of the relevant content and pedagogical
knowledge from the applicable VRA domain by fulfilling the purpose of the assignment.
Application of Content: The candidate accurately and effectively applies the relevant content and
pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
Support: The candidate supports the response with appropriate evidence, examples, and rationales based
on the relevant content and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
The assignments are intended to assess knowledge and skills of reading instruction, not writing ability. Your
responses, however, must be communicated clearly enough to permit a valid judgment of your knowledge and
skills. Your responses should be written for an audience of educators knowledgeable about reading
instruction.
The final version of each response should conform to the conventions of edited American English. Your
responses should be your original work, written in your own words, and not copied or paraphrased from
some other work. You may, however, use citations when appropriate.
The multiple-choice section of Answer Document A containing your name will be removed from your written
responses to maintain your anonymity during the scoring process. Do not write your name on any other
portion of Answer Document A, and do not separate any of the sheets from the document.
You may work on the assignments in any order you choose, but be sure to record your final responses in the
appropriate locations, as listed in the directions for each individual assignment.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-18 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Sample Constructed-Response Item
Use the information below to complete the exercise that follows.
A kindergarten teacher draws a ladder on the chalkboard. On the bottom rung of the ladder, the teacher writes
the word cat. The teacher then asks if anyone can change one letter of cat to form a new word. When a new
word has been formed, the teacher writes that word on the second rung. The game continues until all the rungs
of the ladder have been filled.
Examinee Task
Write a response in which you explain one way that the approach described above can help promote students'
reading development.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-19
Performance Characteristics
• PURPOSE
The candidate demonstrates an understanding of the relevant content and pedagogical knowledge
from the applicable VRA domain by fulfilling the purpose of the assignment.
• APPLICATION OF CONTENT
The candidate accurately and effectively applies the relevant content and pedagogical knowledge
from the applicable VRA domain.
• SUPPORT
The candidate supports the response with appropriate evidence, examples, and rationales based
on the relevant content and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
3-20 Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
Scoring Scale
3
The "3" response reflects a thorough understanding of the relevant content and
pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
The response completely fulfills the purpose of the assignment by responding fully to the
given task.
The response demonstrates an accurate and effective application of the relevant content
and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
The response provides strong supporting evidence, examples, and rationales based on the
relevant content and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
2
The "2" response reflects a general understanding of the relevant content and
pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
The response generally fulfills the purpose of the assignment by responding to the given
task.
The response demonstrates a generally accurate and reasonably effective application of
the relevant content and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
The response provides supporting evidence, examples, and rationales based on the
relevant content and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
1
The "1" response reflects limited or no understanding of the relevant content and
pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
The response partially fulfills or fails to fulfill the purpose of the assignment by
responding in a limited way or inadequately to the given task.
The response demonstrates a limited and/or ineffective application of the relevant content
and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain and may contain significant
inaccuracies.
The response provides limited or no supporting evidence, examples, and rationales based
on the relevant content and pedagogical knowledge from the applicable VRA domain.
Section 3: Sample Test Items for Elementary and Special Education Teachers
Virginia Reading Assessment Study Guide
Rev. 02/0610
3-21
A Strong Response to the Sample Constructed-Response Item
This activity promotes reading development by helping students
understand and apply phonics principles. The activity is a fun game, which
motivates students to learn phonics skills. The game reinforces students'
knowledge of individual letter-sound correspondences, as students replace the
"c" in "cat" with various letters and sound out the new words. The game
also improves decoding skills by helping students recognize the common CVC
spelling pattern of "cat" and the other words on the ladder.
