
 Skip to Content
UVic Home | Student Services | DirectorySearch UVic Web site:     LEARNING SKILLS
  Personal    Learning    Career    Peer Helping   
HOME
INDIVIDUAL
Reqular Appointments
Urgent Appointments
Emergency Appointments
Consultations
GROUPS
Personal, Career, and Learning
Schedule
TESTING
Advanced Educational Testing
ABOUT US
Location
Mission
Staff
Events
Resources

   	
counselling services » learning skills » exams » practice multiple choice
Practice Multiple Choice Test
Try to answer each of the following questions, then click after each one for instant feedback. Do not answer questions you are uncertain about: this test is statistically adjusted to penalize you if you do. Click here for feedback. Identify the level of learning of each question.

 

Mark all correct answers. You can prepare effectively for a multiple choice exam by
(a) taking a Learning Skills course to learn to identify levels of learning required by your tests, and then applying appropriate study strategies
(b) joining a study group so you can practice composing multiple choice questions and answering questions that other people have composed
(c) analyzing old exams not only for content but also for level of learning
(d) practicing identifying subtle similarities and differences among facts and ideas that will likely be included on the exam, and could be confused with one another
Click here for feedback.

 

Pick the best answer. You should
(a) always decide on an answer before reading the alternatives
(b) always do the multiple choice items on an exam first
(c) never change an answer
(d) always review your marked exams
Click here for feedback.

 

It is unlikely that a student who is unskilled in untangling negative statements
(a) will quickly understand multiple choice items written in this way
(b) will not quickly understand multiple choice items written in this way
(c) will quickly understand multiple choice items not written in this way
(d) will not quickly understand multiple choice items not written in this way
Click here for feedback.

 

You notice that your two hour exam is composed entirely of multiple choice questions. The best way to organize your time is to
(a) calculate how much time you can spend on average for each question, answer the easy ones, then spend more time on the difficult ones until you run out of time, then quickly guess the answers to the ones you still haven't done before you hand in the exam
(b) read ALL of the stem and EVERY alternative, eliminating any obviously incorrect answers
(c) mark questions with negatives, superlatives, and qualifiers, then grammatically break down difficult questions
(d) take a few minutes to relax by taking a few deep breaths and getting focused
Click here for feedback.

 

You are taking a math course, and the exams are in multiple choice format. They require you to solve problems, then pick the closest answer from the alternatives given. To study effectively, you should
(a) memorize formulae, and practice recognizing them. Pay particular attention to the similarities and differences among them.
(b) go over your notes and the text carefully
(c) practice doing representative problems until you can do them quickly and accurately
(d) practice estimating answers to representative problems
Click here for feedback.

 

Level of learning of a multiple choice question is determined by
(a) the goals and objectives stated in the course syllabus
(b) the level of Bloom's Taxonomy that best fits the educational goal of the question
(c) the level of generality of the abstract terms within the question
(d) the level of learning required by the task you must perform to decide which alternative to choose
Click here for feedback.

 

Marked exams can provide valuable feedback because
(a) they can help you zero in on effective study techniques
(b) they can help you focus on important content in the course
(c) they can help you decide what levels of thinking you should practice for future exams
(d) all of the above
(e) (a) and (b) above
(f) (b) and (c) above
(g) (a) and (c) above
(h) none of the above
Click here for feedback.

 

Students often believe that they should not change answers because
(a) research shows that students most often change answers from right to wrong
(b) they only notice the answers they changed from right to wrong, and not the ones they changed from wrong to right
(c) they know from personal experience that they can talk themselves out of a right answer more readily than they can talk themselves out of a wrong answer
(d) human nature is such that one's first reaction is often the best one
Click here for feedback.

 

When would you study for a multiple choice test using strategies that would enhance recall?
(a) If you are an auditory learner
(b) When the questions require a high level of critical thinking
(c) When the alternatives are very complex
(d) When the alternatives are very similar
Click here for feedback.

 

You would study for a multiple choice test using strategies that would enhance recognition under which of the following conditions? Check all correct options.
(a) The alternatives are identical (word-for-word) to what you study, rather than paraphrased
(b) The alternatives require higher rather than lower levels of learning
(c) The alternatives are always quite dissimilar
(d) You do not get confused by incorrect information
Click here for feedback.

Click here to go back to the Multiple Choice Handout.

   	
WRITING EXAMS
Blooms Taxonomy
Essay Questions
Haughton's Learning Channels
Multiple Choice Questions
Multiple Choice Examples
Writing History Essays
Sociology Example
 
LEARNING TOPICS
Books
Critical Thinking
Essay Writing
Exams
Memory
Motivation
Note Taking
Reading
Study Skills
Time Management
 
 Back to Navigation
Top
Official UVic Web site · Copyright © 2004, University of Victoria · Legal Notices
Contact us · Updated 28 April, 2011 by S. A. Bjørn

http://www.coun.uvic.ca/learning/exams/multiple-choice/
