1. What are the requirements for wearing a helmet?
Passengers only are required to wear helmets.
All motorcycle riders and passengers are required to wear helmets at all times.
Helmets are not required while driving on city streets.

2. Grabbing the front brake or jamming down on the rear brake:
Can cause the brakes to lock.
Is the best way to stop in an emergency.
Is the best way to slow down when the streets are wet.

3. Passengers on motorcycles should:
Put their feet on the ground when the motorcycle is stopped.
Not ride without a back rest.
Should sit as far forward as possible without crowding you.

4. When riding with a group of motorcyclists, a staggered formation:
Is recommended at all times.
Should not be used when entering or exiting a highway.
Should be used when riding on curves.

5. Eye protection:
Is not needed if your motorcycle is equipped with a windshield.
Is only needed when riding in bad weather.
Should give a clear view to either side.

6. A primary cause of single vehicle motorcycle accidents is:
Motorcyclists' tendency to drive too fast for weather conditions.
Motorcyclists running wide in a curve or turn and colliding with the roadway or a fixed object.
Motorcyclists running off the road while trying to avoid a collision with another vehicle.

7. The best lane position for a motorcycle:
Is in the left part of the lane, next to the center line.
Is in the right part of the lane, next to the curb.
Can vary depending on road and/or traffic conditions.

8. When riding at night you should:
Move closer to the vehicle in front of you to use its lights to see farther down the road.
Keep driving at your normal speed because slowing down would increase the chance of being struck from behind.
Reduce your speed because it is harder to see something lying in the road.

9. You should operate the engine cut-off switch and pull in the clutch when:
The throttle is stuck and you can't free it.
You start to lose control in a curve.
The motorcycle starts to wobble.

10. To operate a moped you must have at least a _______ license.
Class M1
Class M2
Class C

